
                                1 of 1 DOCUMENT


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 30, 2012 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

More American workers

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 371 words


It took plenty of foot-stomping and arm-twisting, but it appears that more Palm
Beach County residents are being hired for hospitality jobs once given to
foreign workers brought into the country for short stints.

Last year, an investigation by The Post's John Lantigua exposed the extent to
which the county's high-end resorts and country clubs bypassed local residents
to hire imported foreign laborers for such jobs as dishwashers, maids and
waiters. Rather than make efforts to recruit and train area residents, The Post
found that many high-end employers preferred to bring in their own workers
through their dubious use of a federal work-visa program.

But the pressure and attention seem to be paying off, at least in some parts of
the county. As The Post reported this month, the use of the overly abused
federal work-visa program appears to have dropped by nearly a third this year in
Palm Beach County. That means hundreds of extra jobs for county residents. And
some indicators suggest the use of this foreign work visa program may fall even
further next year.

To receive permission to hire foreign workers through the federal government's
H-2B temporary work-visa program, businesses had to demonstrate they had tried
unsuccessfully to hire Americans. But The Post's investigation found that such
resorts and country clubs as The Breakers, the Mar-a-Lago Club and the
Ritz-Carlton in Jupiter appeared to be complying only with the letter of the law
while making no real, discernible efforts to hire locals. Their cover story:
Most Americans don't want these jobs.

Thankfully, this alibi didn't fool everyone. Burt Aaronson, then a county
commissioner, organized a task force to work on ways to increase the number of
local workers hired into these positions. His efforts, combined with those of
the county's Workforce Alliance and several leaders in the hospitality industry,
seem to have paid off for hundreds of area families.

With Mr. Aaronson no longer on the commission, it will likely fall chiefly to
his protege and replacement, Commissioner Mary Lou Berger, to carry this issue
forward. With continued attention, even more jobs can be found for the county's
willing workers.

Andrew Marra for The Post Editorial Board

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved
