
                               1 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                      November 12, 2012 Monday 3:42 AM EST

Sen. Chuck Schumer says hes restarting immigration reform talks with Sen. Graham

BYLINE: Sean Sullivan

LENGTH: 253 words


Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said Sunday that he will be making a renewed push
for reforms to the nation's immigration laws along with Sen. Lindsey Graham
(R-S.C.).

Sen. Graham and I have talked and we are resuming the talks that were broken off
two years ago, Schumer said on NBC's Meet The Press.

President Obama won Hispanic voters by 44 points over Mitt Romney, according to
exit polls, a margin that was wider than the Democrat's 36-point advantage over
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) among Latinos in the 2008 election.

"The Republican Party has learned that being anti-immigrant doesn't work for
them, Schumer said.

"I intend to tear this wall down and pass an immigration reform bill that's an
American solution to an American problem, but we have nobody to blame but
ourselves when it comes to losing Hispanics and we can get them back with some
effort on our part," Graham said Sunday on CBS's "Face The Nation."

Graham continued: "It means securing our borders which every American agrees
with, it means making sure that you stop, make it harder to high illegal
immigrants, verifying employment, we need to secure the borders, make sure you
can't hire an illegal immigrant because you'll have documents that can't be
faked, we need guest workers to make it a win-win for American employers when
they can't find workers here, and when it comes to the 12 million, we need to be
firm and fair, self-deportation's not going to work, 65% of the people in the
exit poll of this election supported a pathway to citizenship."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                The Fact Checker

                    September 26, 2012 Wednesday 9:14 PM EST

Obama's failed promise of a first-year immigration overhaul;
The president blamed the economy and Republicans for his failure to deliver on
an immigration promise. We reviewed the facts.

BYLINE: Josh Hicks

LENGTH: 2009 words


"When we talked about immigration reform in the first year, that's before the
economy was on the verge of collapse ..."

"And so we had to take a whole series of emergency actions to make sure that we
put people back to work - cutting taxes for middle-class families and small
businesses so that they could stay open or pay the bills; making sure that
states got assistance so they didn't have to lay off teachers and firefighters
and police officers; saving an auto industry that was on the brink of collapse.
And so that took up a huge amount of time in the first year."

"And what I confess I did not expect - and so I'm happy to take responsibility
for being naive here - is that Republicans who had previously supported
comprehensive immigration reform - my opponent in 2008, who had been a champion
of it and who attended these meetings - suddenly would walk away. That's what I
did not anticipate."

- President Obama during a town hall interview hosted by Univision and Facebook,
Sept. 20, 2012

Polls show President Obama maintaining a clear and consistent advantage over
challenger Mitt Romney among Hispanic voters, but an interview last week on the
Spanish-language television network Univision suggested that the current
administration has left something to be desired with the demographic.

Univision anchor Jorge Ramos held Obama accountable for a promise the former
Illinois senator made during his 2008 bid for office, when he said, "I can
guarantee that we will have, in the first year, an immigration bill that I
strongly support."

"I want to emphasize 'the first year,' " Ramos said. "At the beginning of your
governing, you had control of both chambers of Congress, and yet you did not
introduce immigration reform. And before I continue, I want for you to
acknowledge that you did not keep your promise."

The president acknowledged only that he was naive to think Republicans would
negotiate with him on immigration, and he excused his lack of progress on the
issue by saying he spent most of his first-year dealing with an economic crisis.

Let's take a look at Obama's inaugural year in the White House and his record on
immigration to determine whether his statements tell the whole story. Did his
promise fail to materialize because of Republicans and the economy, or does the
president deserve some blame here?

The Facts

Obama said repeatedly during his 2008 campaign that "presidents are going to
have to deal with more than one thing at a time." That's the standard he set for
himself: No excuses; presidents just have to juggle.

Obama turned to that line frequently as the economy started to nosedive around
September 2008. He even used it once to rebuff Sen. John McCain's suggestion
that the two candidates postpone a presidential debate to help lawmakers reach a
bailout deal for the financial sector. "It is going to be part of the
president's job to deal with more than one thing at once," the Democratic
candidate said.

Obama unquestionably inherited an economy in tatters, but his predecessor signed
a major piece of legislation to stave off complete collapse before leaving
office. President George W. Bush approved the Troubled Asset Relief Program,
which provided about $700 billion in bailout money for the auto and financial
industries. (Many people believe Obama was responsible for TARP, but his
administration only managed the program once it was in place).

The Obama administration, along with a Democratic-controlled House and Senate,
implemented additional measures to deal with the continuing recession when the
new president took office. Perhaps the most notable bill was the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which authorized about $833 billion for
investments in infrastructure, education, health, clean energy and for helping
states balance their budgets. It also included temporary tax breaks.

Obama approved the Recovery Act less than a month after taking office. And while
his administration had to manage the resulting stimulus programs and their many
complicated layers, the president was free to lead further legislative
negotiations.

So, what else did Obama accomplish with Congress during his first year? He
enacted a bill in May 2009 that allowed bankruptcy judges to modify loans to
help people keep their homes; he signed legislation in November to extend
unemployment benefits and tax credits for first-time homebuyers; and he approved
a $3 billion "cash for clunkers" program in June that provided tax incentives
for drivers to buy more fuel-efficient cars.

Administratively, the Obama White House also had to manage the restructuring and
bankruptcy processes for GM and Chrysler, although most of that work was wrapped
up by July 2009. (We explored how those deals unfolded in a previous column.)

Obama said during his Univision interview that he was too consumed by economic
problems to tackle other big issues. But he launched the effort to overhaul the
nation's health-care system in March of that year, telling the audience at a
White House forum that a plan was likely to be in place before Congress's summer
recess. That was less than two months after taking office.(Reuters produced a
handy timeline of how the health law came about).

For what it's worth, the president's first law, which he signed nine days after
taking office, was the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which made it easier for
women to sue employers over pay discrimination.

As for immigration, Obama called for comprehensive reform in June 2009. But the
likelihood of any progress on that front was slim, with the president and
lawmakers already haggling over big issues such as health care, financial
regulation and energy policy.

A report from the New York Times noted that the Obama administration showed
virtually no will to lead on the issue.

Here's what the Times said about the matter:

"Aides to Mr. Obama say he does not intend to get out in front of any proposal
until there is a strong bipartisan commitment to pass it. That stance has the
potential to paralyze the process, since lawmakers are looking to him to use his
bully pulpit, and high approval ratings, to help them fend off any political
backlash among their constituents."

The Times article noted that members of both parties at the time were leery of
supporting an immigration overhaul with unemployment levels still high. It
quoted Rep. Heath Shuler (D-N.C.) saying the government should enforce existing
laws before considering changes, especially when "Congress is spending hundreds
of billions of dollars to create new jobs, which should go to legal U.S.
workers."

The takeaway here is that Obama showed little will to lead on this issue during
his first year, and many members of his own party seemed uninterested in
comprehensive changes at that time - not just Republicans.

Let's look at how Obama dealt with immigration after 2009, even though he
promised to enact revisions during his first year.

The president mentioned immigration only once during his 2010 State of the Union
Address, saying, "We should continue the work of fixing our broken immigration
system - to secure our borders and enforce our laws, and ensure that everyone
who plays by the rules can contribute to our economy and enrich our nation."

Again, Obama offered no specific policy proposals on what needed to be done to
reach a compromise.

This is in stark contrast to Bush, who delivered a prime-time television address
outlining a five-point plan for overhauling the nation's immigration laws in
2006. The former president talked in-depth about what he expected: A temporary
worker program, criminal background checks for immigrants, biometric
identification cards and requirements for a "pathway to citizenship" that would
include paying taxes, learning English and proving several years of employment.

(UPDATE: A White House spokesman pointed out that the White House in May 2011
released a "Blueprint for Building a 21st Century Immigration System." This
shows that Obama, like Bush, provided specific proposals for immigration reform,
but it does not affect our Pinocchio rating below, because the blueprint came
out during the president's third year in office, not his first.)

One year after Bush's address, the Senate filibustered the Comprehensive
Immigration Reform Act, with 18 out of 46 Democrats voting against a cloture
motion that would have pushed the bill to a vote.

Obama pressed for Congress to pass the DREAM Act before Republicans won the
House majority during the 2010 midterm election. That bill would have made
children of illegal immigrants - up to age 35  - eligible for residency so long
as they are going to school or serving in the military and don't have criminal
records.

According to a report in The Washington Post, Obama lobbied lawmakers to support
the measure, but the Senate failed to produce the 60 votes needed to overcome a
filibuster.

In this case, four Democrats voted against cloture, helping to kill the measure.
Once again, both parties were at fault for blocking changes to immigration law.
In fact, five GOP lawmakers voted for cloture, which is more than the number of
Democrats Obama failed to bring on board.

Meanwhile, Obama in 2010 enacted the health-care law, negotiated a bipartisan
tax deal, gained approval for a new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with Russia
and rallied enough support from members of both parties to repeal the "don't ask
don't tell" policy that prevented openly gay citizens from serving in the
military.

Obama asked again for a bipartisan agreement to overhaul immigration laws after
2010, but Republicans demanded stricter border enforcement first. The two sides
never made a concerted effort to forge an agreement, even though immigrant
activists had recommended to the president several Republicans whom they thought
would work toward a deal with him.

Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) reached out to immigrant activists in April 2012 to
begin crafting a bill similar to the DREAM Act, but Obama showed no interest in
working with the Republicans on that. The president instead took unilateral
action, using his executive authority to defer deportation proceedings for
children of illegal immigrants so long as they meet certain requirements.

The Pinocchio Test

It's clear that the Obama administration had its hands full overseeing various
stimulus and bailout programs during its first year, but most of the heavy
lifting was done before the end of summer. And the president signed the most
important piece of stimulus legislation of his term - the Recovery Act - a month
after taking office. This left plenty of time to hammer out deals on
non-economic issues.

Overall, it's an exaggeration for the president to suggest that he had no time
to address immigration in 2009 - especially for someone who insisted that
presidents have to deal with more than one thing at a time. He did, after all,
set Congress on a path toward overhauling the health-care system that year, and
he signed a law making it easier for women to sue employers over pay
discrimination.

The fact that the president failed to lead on immigration or forge an agreement
during his entire term shows that the issue ranked lower on his priority list
than health care, the arms-reduction treaty, repealing "don't ask don't tell"
and stopping pay discrimination toward women.

The president certainly faced opposition from Republicans and even members of
his own party on this issue. But a guarantee is a guarantee, regardless of
whether he miscalculated the will of Congress to compromise.

Obama failed to deliver on a promise, and he blamed Republicans instead of
acknowledging any real responsibility for that failure. He earns two Pinocchios.

Two Pinocchios

(About our rating scale)

Check out our candidate Pinocchio Tracker

Follow The Fact Checker on Twitter and friend us on Facebook .

Track each presidential candidate's campaign ads

Read our biggest Pinocchios

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     October 17, 2012 Wednesday 6:21 PM EST

Ad watch: Romney pushes Obama on immigration promise

BYLINE: Natalie Jennings

LENGTH: 119 words


Mitt Romney, "Soluciones para la inmigracion"

What it says (translated): "The liberal Democrats promised immigration reform...

 Now, the Democrats say they never made a promise ... Romney and the Republicans
will fight for bipartisan reform to bring families together."

What it means: Mitt Romney, who trails significantly in polling among Hispanic
voters, is trying to turn the tables. The ad highlights an exchange from Tuesday
night's debate in which he confronted Obama over the president's unfulfilled
promise of immigration reform.

Who will see it: There's no new ad buy, but Romney has in recent weeks bought ad
time in Colorado, Florida and Nevada on Spanish-speaking media.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                     November 15, 2012 Thursday 9:26 PM EST

Why the GOP needs to do immigration reform now

BYLINE: Aaron Blake

LENGTH: 1016 words


The Republican Party is beginning to succumb to the demographic reality that
confronts it: Just as Latino voters are deserting the GOP in near-record
numbers, the Latino vote is quickly becoming hugely important to winning
elections.

So it's no surprise that Republicans now sound keen on doing comprehensive
immigration reform; they need a healthy share of Latino votes going forward, and
they're not getting it.

But when it comes to Republicans and immigration reform, it isn't so much that
the GOP needs to do it, as much as that it can't afford not to be a part of it.

We know those two statements sound like the same thing (and that our English
teachers failed to teach us the perils of double negatives), but they're not.

The former statement doesn't assume that immigration reform gets done; the
latter assumes that it does. And more and more, it looks like the American
public is ready for immigration reform.

While many have focused since Election Day on the Latino vote, few have focused
on attitudes toward immigration. Exit polls conducted on Election Day showed
nearly two-thirds of voters supported a path to citizenship for illegal
immigrants, while a more recent Washington Post-ABC News poll showed that number
at 57 percent -- up from 49 percent in 2007, the last time there was a big push
for immigration reform.

Regardless of which number is more accurate, it's clear that there's a growing
consensus around the idea of a path to citizenship, and thus, it's reasonable to
assume (though far from certain) that some kind of immigration reform will get
done in the relatively near future.

Republicans, of course, still control the House and can still block bills in the
Senate via filibuster. But at some point, if a path to citizenship is popular
enough, Democrats may be able to pick off enough GOP votes to pass something --
or they may gain control of both chambers completely.

The question from there is whether Republicans are viewed as participants or
obstructors. If reform does get done, and the vast majority of the GOP didn't
take part, you can bet it will only exacerbate the party's problem with Latinos.

We saw in the 2012 election what happens when it looks like the GOP is standing
in the way of immigration reform. President Obama reaped huge benefits from his
executive order preventing the deportation of young illegal immigrants, while
Republicans stood by and debated whether it was a good idea.

The stakes are big and growing quickly.

According to a Pew Hispanic Center survey released Wednesday, while there are
currently 24 million eligible Latino voters, there will be 40 million by 2030,
thanks in large part to the 17.6 million Latinos under 18 years of age (93
percent of which are U.S.-born and will be eligible to vote).

But that 40 million figure doesn't include illegal immigrants and permanent
legal residents, which number 7.1 million and 5.4 million, respectively.

And if there is a path to citizenship for these immigrants, it will only
increase the already fast-rising clout of the Latino vote, which could be twice
as big as it is now by 2030, according to Pew. What's more, it's hard to see
former illegal immigrants and permanent residents voting against the party that
gave them a path to citizenship.

Immigration, of course, isn't the only issue that matters to Latino voters --
and too often coverage of them suggests it is -- but it is an issue which is
very important to a very large portion of these voters.

And if immigration reform gets done without the GOP being on board, whether in
this Congress or in the near future, it will be even worse for Republicans than
2012 was.Whatever problems they have with Latinos now, they will pale to the day
when the GOP is matched up against a Democratic Party that successfully passed
immigration reform without much or any Republican involvement.

And the 44-point advantage that Obama enjoyed among Latinos last week might be a
footnote rather than a high note.

Romney said Obama won thanks to gifts' to voter blocs: In a call with donors on
Wednesday, Mitt Romney said Obama won the election because he gave "gifts" to
different groups, including young voters, Latinos, African-Americans and women.

Romney said Obama used the "old playbook" of directing specific official
policies to "especially the African-American community, the Hispanic community
and young people," according to a New York Times report.

He cited Obama's health care law, which mandates universal care and allows
children to be on their parents' plans longer, Obama's decision to stop the
deportation of young illegal immigrants, Obama's plan for partial forgiveness of
college loan interest and Obama forcing health care providers to cover
contraception.

Other Republicans quickly denounced the comments, including Louisiana Gov. Bobby
Jindal and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, who were gather in Las Vegas for a
meeting of the Republican Governors Association.

"We have got to stop dividing American voters," Jindal said. "I absolutely
reject that notion, that description.  We're fighting for 100 percent of the
vote."

This won't help the GOP's efforts to win over minority voters, especially given
Romney's past "47 percent" comments. And the fact that Jindal and Wisconsin Gov.
Scott Walker (R) so quickly denounced Romney suggests party heavyweights are
ready for the Romney chapter to be over.

Fixbits:

Immigration hard-liner Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) says Republicans don't, in fact,
need to move on immigrationreform.

Rep. Ron Paul (R-Texas) delivers his farewell speech. He's retiring from
Congress.

Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) for some reason nominated Newt Gingrich for speaker
on Wednesday.

Must-reads:

"In first post-election news conference, Obama lays out second term" -- Scott
Wilson, Washington Post

"Walden Wears Eagle-Scout Sash Like His GOP Mentor" -- Joshua Miller, Roll Call

"Obama campaign took unorthodox approach to ad buying" -- T.W. Farnam,
Washington Post

"Veteran F.B.I. Agent Helped Start Petraeus E-Mail Inquiry" -- Michael S.
Schmidt, Scott Shane and Alain Delaqueriere

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                      December 4, 2012 Tuesday 7:34 PM EST

George W. Bush calls for benevolent' immigration debate

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 288 words


Former president George W. Bush is wading into the debate over immigration
reform, using a speech in Dallas to praise immigrants and ask that the issue be
approached with a "benevolent spirit."

Bush, who tried and failed to pass comprehensive reform as president, opened a
day-long conference on immigration and economic growth organized by the George
W. Bush Institute, and the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Economists, CEOs and
policy experts are speaking at the invitation-only event.

"Immigrants come with new skills and new ideas. They fill a critical gap in our
labor market. They work hard for a chance for a better life," Bush said. "Not
only do immigrants help build our economy, they invigorate our soul. America can
be a lawful society and a welcoming society at the same time."

The former president did not offer any specific policy initiatives. Instead, he
asked politicians dealing with the issue "to do so with a benevolent spirit and
keep in mind the contribution of immigrants."

Bush's reform efforts were stymied by Republicans in Congress. He later told the
Washington Times that if he could do one thing over, he would push immigration
reform in the wake of the 2004 election instead of focusing on a failed Social
Security overhaul.

Now, in the wake of a bruising election, Republicans increasingly agree that the
party's hard line on immigration is politically untenable.

Three influential Republican senators recently introduced legislation that would
grant legal residency to young people brought illegally to the United States, if
they seek higher education or enlist in the military. And pro-immigration
conservative activists have descended on D.C. this week to pressure key
Republicans to support reform.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                    September 5, 2012 Wednesday 10:44 PM EST

Undocumented immigrant to speak at convention;
Tonight, for the first time, an undocumented immigrant will speak at a national
political convention.

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 114 words


Tonight, for the first time, an undocumented immigrant will speak at a national
political convention. Benita Veliz, 27, was brought to Texas from Mexico by her
parents when she was 8 years old. She was threatened with deportation in 2009
after rolling through a stop sign and getting stopped by police.

An activist for the DREAM Act, which would grant permanent residency to some
immigrants who graduate from U.S. high schools, Veliz was spared deportation
last fall. President Obama, by executive order, subsequently stopped the
deportation of some illegal immigrants who were brought to the country as
children, who can now apply for work permits. That policy went into effect in
August.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     September 6, 2012 Thursday 1:34 AM EST

Benita Veliz, undocumented immigrant, speaks;
"President Obama fought for the DREAM Act to help people like me, and when
Congress refused to pass it he didn't give up, instead he took action," she
said.

BYLINE: Krissah Thompson

LENGTH: 221 words


Benita Veliz, 27, just made history.

An illegal immigrant who was brought to Texas as a child, she became the first
undocumented person to address a national political convention.

Actually, Veliz WAS an illegal immigrant. She now has temporary residential
status under President Obamas executive order granting a reprieve to people like
Veliz, the young woman said.

Veliz, who said she was valedictorian of her high school at the age of 16, said
she feels just as American as any of my friends or neighbors. According to her
biography on Dreamactivist.org, Veliz described herself this way: Ive never been
married. I dont have any children. I went straight from high school to college
and then to work. The only family I have left in Mexico is on my mothers side
and I have only seen them once or twice in my life, as a young child.

Ive had to live almost my entire life knowing I could be deported, she said on
the stage.

Velizs speech was preceded by a video about immigration with Obama saying, it
makes no sense to expel talented young people who have been raised as Americans.

Democrats have been making a full press for Latino voters, who are key in many
swing states. President Obama fought for my community, Veliz said.

Veliz was introducing Cristina Saralegui, an influential Hispanic talk show host
who endorsed Obama in June.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     October 3, 2012 Wednesday 9:32 PM EST

Mitt Romney would not revoke visas for young illegal immigrants;
Mitt Romney has come out against President Obama's executive order deferring
deportation for some young illegal immigrants. But in an interview with the
Denver Post, he promised not to deport those who have already received temporary
visas.

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 369 words


Mitt Romney has come out against President Obama's executive order deferring
deportation for some young illegal immigrants. But in an interview with the
Denver Post, he promised not to deport those who have already received temporary
visas.

"The people who have received the special visa that the president has put in
place, which is a two-year visa, should expect that the visa would continue to
be valid. I'm not going to take something that they've purchased," Romney told
the paper. "Before those visas have expired we will have the full immigration
reform plan that I've proposed."

Obama's executive order gives some illegal immigrants who came to the country as
children a two-year reprieve from deportation and the chance to apply for a work
permit.

"Romney's latest immigration pivot raises more questions than it answers," said
Gabriela Domenzain, a spokeswoman for the  Obama campaign. "What would he do
with those who qualify for deferred action but haven't received it? Would he
deport those who have received a deferment when the program expires after two
years?"

The Romney campaign told the Boston Globe that the candidate would not grant new
deportation exemptions once the ones granted by Obama expired.

After taking a hard line on immigration in the Republican primaries, Romney has
softened his stance, promising to loosen some restrictions on foreign workers.

Romney has repeatedly said that his plan isn't to "round people up" and "deport
people." Instead, he said at one January debate would encourage
"self-deportation" by making it harder for illegal immigrants to find work. In a
recent Univision interview, he defined that policy as letting "People make their
own choices as to whether they want to go hom."

But beyond that, the candidate has not said what he would do about the 11
million illegal immigrants already in the country. He has said he would veto the
DREAM Act, legislation that would create a path to citizenship for many illegal
immigrant students and members of the military.

About a fifth of Colorado's population is Hispanic; 13 percent of eligible
voters in the battleground state are Latino. Romney has consistently placed far
behind the president in polls of Hispanic voters.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                    November 17, 2012 Saturday 10:28 PM EST

Legalize it! The stark generational divide on pot, gay marriage and illegal
immigration;
Where the public stands on gay marriage, illegal immigration and pot depends
heavily on how old you are.

BYLINE: Peyton M. Craighill;Scott Clement

LENGTH: 504 words


Strong majorities of adults under age 30support gay marriage and a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants, and a majority supports legalizing small
amounts of marijuana according to a new Washington Post-ABC News poll.

The fact that younger Americans are consistently more supportive of these
measures than the oldest generation may signal change in the years to come. For
those under age 30, about two thirds support gay marriage and a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants. Support is shallower for legalizing
marijuana but a majority of young people still support it. Middle age Americans
(age 40 to 64) split more narrowly on each question while seniors (age 65 plus)
generally oppose gay marriage and marijuana and split on a "path to
citizenship."

Overall, Americans support a path to citizenship by 57 to 39 percent, while
splitting about evenly on gay marriage (51 percent support, 47 percent oppose)
and legalizing marijuana possession (48 support, 50 oppose).

The poll numbers are consistent with changing dynamics at the ballot box. After
a losing streak in over 30 statewide contests, gay marriage won approval at the
ballot box in Maryland, Maine and Washington last Tuesday. In Minnesota, a
proposal to ban gay marriage in the state constitution was rejected.Maryland
voters also approved their version of a "Dream Act", allowing qualified illegal
immigrants to pay in-state college tuition. Colorado and Washington voters
supported laws permitting possession, and in Colorado, consumption of small
amounts of marijuana. (Oregon voters rejected marijuana legalization, and
Arkansas rejected medically-approved marijuana).

Picking apart support within sub-groups in the polls reveals the ranging
dynamics at play. Women are 18 percentage points more supportive of gay marriage
than men (59 to 41 percent), but men are seven points more apt to support
legalizing marijuana. And racial diversity explains much of the generational gap
on immigration: Support for a "path to citizenship" is at 52 percent among
whites under age 50 and 49 percent among those who are older. But two-thirds of
both older and younger non-whites support a route to citizenship.

A bare 51 percentmajorityof African Americans oppose gay marriage while a
similarly slim 54 percent support marijuana. Hispanics tilt the other way with
53 percent in support of gay marriage and a much wider 65 percent in opposition
to marijuana.

The way forward on immigration issues appears to be most difficult for
Republicans. While a majority of Republicans oppose a path to citizenship for
illegals, 82 percent of Hispanics support it, with 56 percent supporting it
"strongly." President Obama increased his share of the Hispanic vote from 2008,
a growing and critical constituency.

This poll was conducted Nov. 7 to 11 among a random national sample of 1,023
adults, using conventional and cellular phones. The results from the full survey
have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points. Error
margins are larger for subgroups.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     December 13, 2012 Thursday 3:42 AM EST

AP: Menendez employed undocumented sex offender

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 401 words


The AP reports that Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) employed as an unpaid intern a
registered sex offender who was in the country illegally, and that the
Department of Homeland Security told federal agents not to arrest the teenager
until after Election Day.

Luis Abrahan Sanchez Zavaleta, an 18-year-old immigrant from Peru, was arrested
by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents in front of his home in New
Jersey on Dec. 6, two federal officials said. Sanchez, who entered the country
on a now-expired visitor visa from Peru, is facing deportation and remains in
custody. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not
authorized to discuss details of Sanchez's immigration case.

The Homeland Security Department disputes the AP's report that the arrest was
delayed until after the election.

"The report is categorically false," DHS spokesman Peter Boogaard said in a
statement. "ICE followed standard process in coordination with its federal
partners and local prosecutors before taking appropriate enforcement action."

Menendez's office says they knew nothing about Sanchez's background; he was
intern in the Newark office for about two months.

"No staff member responsible for managing the internship program had reason to
believe, based on their interview process, that Sanchez had any criminal
background or immigration issues," spokeswoman Tricia Enright said in a
statement. "Senator Menendez was briefed on the situation today   and he is
appalled."

Menendez was elected to a second term in November, easily beating state Sen.
Joseph Kyrillos (R).

In an interview with MSNBC on Wednesday afternoon, Menendez said he had only
just heard of the situation.

"I didn't know anything about this young man's status until right before I came
on this program," the senator said. His staff, he said, learned of the issue on
Monday.

"There's no way we could know about his status," Menendez told MSNBC. "There's
no way we could know about his background" as a sex offender, he added, because
Sanchez was a juvenile when the offenses occured.

The senator was initially booked to discuss immigration reform, coincidentally.
He brought the arrest back to that topic, "It does speak volumes about why we
need comprehensive immigration reform, because we can't know who is here to
pursue the American dream versus who is here to do it damage," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                      August 30, 2012 Thursday 5:42 PM EST

Jeb Bush and the politics of immigration;
Former Florida governor charts a separate path from much of the GOP when it
comes to the hot button issue.

BYLINE: Sean Sullivan

LENGTH: 623 words


Jeb Bushs message on immigration is directed as much at his own party as it is
at the opposing one. And if there is a GOP migration toward moderation on the
subject in the coming years, he might well be at the forefront of the movement.

The former Florida Republican governor spoke at a Washington Post/Bloomberg
breakfast in Tampa on Thursday morning, and said that while he does not favor
President Obama's recent executive order which stopped the deportation of
certain young illegal immigrants, he does supportthe DREAM Act, a measure
stalled in Congress which would grant legal residency and a path to citizenship
for young people brought into the country illegally in their youth.Having a
solution to the fact that we have all of these young people, many of whom are
making great contributions, don't have a connection to their to their parents'
former country, yeah, of course I'm for it, Bush said.Immigration has been a
tricky issue for the GOP, which is populated with political figures who have
adopted strict, hard-line postures that some in the moderate wing of the party
worry will alienate a fast-growing Hispanic population that could play an
increasingly influential role in electoral politics.Bush offered a warning for
immigration hard-liners: Their message is not a winner.The interesting thing is
that the most vociferous anti-immigrant kind of candidates lose. Probably have
noticed, but they lose in primaries, they lose in general elections, he said.For
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, immigration has been a difficult
issue to navigate. The conservative base of the GOP opposes a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants. At the same time, Romney cant afford to
alienate Hispanic voters. So, he has largely refrained from saying much about
it.Earlier this year, Bush urged Romney to broaden his message when it comes to
immigration, and to make it an economic issue as much as it is a question of the
rule of law.When it comes to Hispanic voters, Bush said the issues that are atop
the minds of other voters  jobs and the economy  are also the ones they care
most about. But immigration is still important, Bush said Thursday, because
addressing it is one way of building credibility with the Hispanic community.Its
a gateway issue, because it's an issue that allows you ... show some
sensitivity, it allows you to be heard, he said. And I think that's kind of
theright way to look at it, that it's,it's an issue that has relevance.Bush also
offered a stern rebuke to Obama on immigration, and accused him of playing
politics. Earlier this summer, the president signed an executive order that
stopped the deportation of certain young illegal immigrants. Bush said he saw
Obamas action as a way of undercutting Romney and winning good will from
Hispanic voters, not as an effective piece of policy.This is so cynical. And he
I mean, if you're,if you,if the law says clearly that you have a case-by-case
right to review cases, and you blanket say 800,000 people comply, that is way
beyond the purview of executive power, Bushsaid.Bush will address the convention
Thursday night. Hes a popular figure in Republican circles, owing to his appeal
to the party establishment as well as conservatives, who like his focus on
education reform. Immigration has not been a dominant topic of discussion so far
at the gathering, and it will be interesting to see how much (if any) of his
speech Bush devotes to the topic.I'm not running for anything and I can speak my
mind, Bush said at the end of the Thursday morning breakfast.That may be the
case right now. But he was mentioned as a possible presidential candidate this
cycle and can reasonably expect his name to surface again in future elections.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               12 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                      September 7, 2012 Friday 8:47 PM EST

Mitt Romney and Steve King;
Mitt Romney's appearance with Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) is getting some negative
attention.

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 196 words


Mitt Romney's appearance with Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) is getting some negative
attention:

Costs outweigh any possible small benefit @buzzfeedandrew: Mitt Romney endorses
Congressman Steve King. buzzfeed.com/mckaycoppins/r

Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) Sept. 7, 2012

(Navarro worked on Hispanic outreach for John McCain's 2008 campaign).

King is very conservative, and his views on immigration in particular would
likely turn off Hispanic voters. The congressmanthreatened to sue the White
House over an executive order that halted deportations for some young
undocumented immigrants. Not long ago hecompared the immigration process to
picking the best dogs. On the other hand, King championed Sen. Marco Rubio
(R-Fla.), a leading voice on immigration policy in the GOP, as a potential
Romney running mate.

But it's not so surprising that Romney is touting King's reelection. King
endorsed Romney on a Republican National Committee conference call and recently
told Iowans that the presidential candidate's campaign has come to him for
advice.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               13 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     September 17, 2012 Monday 8:35 PM EST

Romney: GOP is 'rightful home' of Hispanics;
In a speech to the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Monday, Mitt Romney argued that
Hispanic-Americans -- a demographic that overwhelmingly supports President Obama
-- belong in the GOP.

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 167 words


In a speech to the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Monday, Mitt Romney argued that
Hispanic Americans - a demographic that overwhelmingly supports President Obama
- belong in the GOP.

"I am convinced that the Republican Party is the rightful home of Hispanic
Americans," he said, citing the ideological journey New Mexico Gov. Susana
Martinez made from Democrat to Republican. He outlined his five-point economic
plan, a plan his campaign is now emphasizing in ads and on the trail.

Romney promised to "permanently fix our immigration system." As he has before,
he specified that he would offer a path to citizenship for those who serve in
the military, make family reunification a priority, reform the temporary worker
program and let in more workers with advanced degrees. He pledged to establish
an employment verification system and punish businesses that hire undocumented
immigrants. But he did not offer a plan to deal with the millions of
non-military undocumented immigrants already in the country.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               14 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                    September 20, 2012 Thursday 6:26 PM EST

Obama does Univision forum;
President Obama on Thursday will answer questions about immigration, education
and other issues important to Latino voters at a meet-the-candidate event here
sponsored by Univision, a day after Republican rival Mitt Romney appeared at the
same forum.

BYLINE: David Nakamura

LENGTH: 191 words


CORAL GABLES, Fla. - President Obama will answer questions Thursday about
immigration, education and other issues important to Latino voters at a
meet-the-candidate event here sponsored by Univision, a day after Republican
rival Mitt Romney appeared at the same forum.

Obama will appear before a live audience, made up of students and Democratic
supporters, at the University of Miami's BankUnited Center Fieldhouse. The event
will be live-streamed in English at 2 p.m. on the Univision Noticias Facebook
Page and in both English and Spanish at Univisionnoticias.com. Univision will
broadcast the event at 10 p.m. Thursday night on its television network.

Hispanic voters, who overwhelmingly supported Obama over Sen. John McCain in
2008, had grown frustrated at the Obama administration's record on immigration
reform, but Obama in June announced an executive order that his administration
would no longer deport some illegal immigrants who came to the United States as
children and were otherwise law-abiding residents.

In Florida, the largest swing state with 29 electoral college votes, Obama is
counting on big turnout from Latinos in November.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               15 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     October 17, 2012 Wednesday 6:21 AM EST

Romney and Obama clash on immigration

BYLINE: Krissah Thompson

LENGTH: 335 words


In what has been a lively debate full of clashes, one of the biggest has been
over immigration. The question, asked by Lorraine Osorio, went first to Mitt
Romney.

"What I will do is I'll put in place an employment verification system and make
sure that employers that hire people who have come here illegally are sanctioned
for doing so," Romney said. "I won't put in place magnets for people coming here
illegally. So for instance, I would not give driver's licenses to those that
have come here illegally as the president would."

He added, "The kids of those that came here illegally, those kids, I think,
should have a pathway to become a permanent resident of the United States and
military service, for instance, is one way they would have that kind of pathway
to become a permanent resident," Romney said. "Now, when the president ran for
office, he said that he'd put in place, in his first year, a piece of
legislation - he'd file a bill in his first year that would reform our - our
immigration system, protect legal immigration, stop illegal immigration. He
didn't do it." More on that here.

Obama, who this year put into place a policy that gives illegal immigrants under
the age of 30 legal residency, challenged Romney on his pledge to help children
who came to the country illegally. "Now, Governor Romney just said that, you
know, he wants to help those young people, too," Obama said. "But during the
Republican primary, he said, I will veto the DREAM Act that would allow these
young people to have access. His main strategy during the Republican primary was
to say, we're going to encourage self-deportation, making life so miserable on
folks that they'll leave. He called the Arizona law a model for the nation. Part
of the Arizona law said that law enforcement officers could stop folks because
they suspected maybe they looked like they might be undocumented workers and
checked their papers."

Romney referred to Arizona's E-Verify policy as a model, not the controversial
policy Obama described.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               16 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                      November 9, 2012 Friday 4:40 PM EST

Why Republicans position on immigration is a political loser in 1 chart;
As Republicans and conservatives signal a shift , how did 2012 voters break down
on the immigration debate?

BYLINE: Peyton Craighill

LENGTH: 178 words


Widespread Hispanic support for Democrats on Tuesday, together with the
inexorable shifts in demographics seem to be an impetus for a review of the
strategic direction of the Republican Party. For immigration reform, the policy
reevaluation appears to be happening in real time.

After all, the national exit poll showed voters still clearly on one side of the
debate. By 65 to 28 percent, voters said most illegal immigrants working in the
United States should be offered a chance to apply for legal status, rather than
being deported.

While the exit poll question doesn't tap the subtleties of the arguments for and
against reform, the top line numbers -- along with the 71 percent Obama got from
Hispanic voters -- appear to have reshuffled GOP positioning on the matter. Wide
majorities of Democrats and independents want legal status, as do 51 percent of
Republican voters, according to the exit poll.

More than three-in-four Hispanic voters supported a chance for illegal
immigrants to gain legal status, including 84 percent of Hispanics who identify
as independents.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               17 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                      November 9, 2012 Friday 8:28 PM EST

Republicans find religion on immigration reform. Is it too late?

BYLINE: Chris Cillizza

LENGTH: 790 words


In the three days since the 2012 election, a who's who of Republicans have
admitted the obvious: the party's current position on immigration is politically
untenable.

"I think members on both sides of the aisle want to resolve this issue," House
Speaker John Boehner said at a press conference on Capitol Hill Friday morning.
Earlier in the week he told ABC News: "This issue has been around far too long.A
comprehensive approach is long overdue, and I'm confident that the president,
myself, others can find the common ground to take care of this issue once and
for all."

Former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice echoed that sentiment Friday morning
in an interview with CBS. "Right now for me the most powerful argument is that
the changing demographics in the country really necessitate an even bigger tent
for the Republican Party," she said.

Conservative columnist Charles Krauthammer called today for the building of a
border fence and for amnesty for the illegal immigrants already in this country.
Even conservative talk show host Sean Hannity had a change of heart, saying that
his position on the issue had "evolved"and that Republicans needed to find a way
to deal with the issue and move beyond it.

The message in all of these statements is a simple one: We get it.

But, a broader question remains: While the Republican establishment -- and even
some of its conservative elements like Hannity -- appear to have found religion
on the need to cut a deal on immigration reform, can they sell it to a party
base that continues to vehemently oppose anything that condones illegal
immigrants gaining legal status?

While Boehner's comments on immigration have drawn the lion's share of
attention, it's worth noting that some within the House Republican conference
quickly voiced their strong opposition to any sort of deal.

Here's what Iowa Rep. Steve King, who is already rumored to be a Senate
candidate in 2014, tweeted out shortly after Boehner's comments went public:

Obama voters chose dependency over Liberty. Now establishment R's want
citizenship for illegals. You can't beat Santa Claus with amnesty.

Steve King (@SteveKingIA) November 9, 2012

And, while it's easy to dismiss King's voice as an isolated one, it's worth
remembering that former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney adopted the position
of "self deportation" for illegal immigrants during the presidential primary
process for fear of being labeled insufficiently conservative by the GOP base.

Check out this chart detailing the findings from a major national survey by the
Washington Post and the Kaiser Family Foundation that aimed to slice and dice
the various wings of the two national parties.

Six in 10 Republicans aligned with the tea party favor deporting illegal
immigrants to their native country. A majority of "old school Republicans" --
described in the survey as "more male, white educated and wealthy" in the
Post-Kaiser findings -- feel the same way. (For more on the various segments
within the Republican party, check out this cool graphic.)

What that data suggest is that no matter what the party leadership believes
should be done on immigration, there will almost certainly be opposition from
within the tea party wing to almost anything that allows illegal immigrants to
stay in the country.And, in case you haven't been paying attention to Republican
primaries over the last few years, that wing of the party has a huge amount of
influence in picking nominees.

Despite those daunting numbers, Republicans argue that their Hispanic problem
can be fixed and cite as evidence the victory of Nevada Sen. Dean Heller on
Tuesday -- even as President Obama was easily carrying the Silver State thanks
to his overwhelming majorities among Latinos.

"[Heller] embraced [Marco]Rubio's Dream Act alternative," said one senior GOP
strategist. "He copied [Rubio's] rhetoric and tone on immigration." Added the
source:"The GOP also needs to put forth ideas to promote upward mobility. We are
working on an agenda, which we think will have great appeal to all people,
especially Hispanics."

(Worth noting: Heller overperformed Romney among Latinos but still only won 25
percent of the Hispanic vote, according to exit polling.)

What's clear is that GOP leaders -- and even some conservative thought leaders
-- have woken up to the fact that the party faces a massive demographic
disadvantage in future elections if they can't find a way to, if not win
Hispanics, lose the group by far less than the 44-point margin of the 2012
election.

What's not clear is whether the base of the party is willing to go along to get
along or whether they will rebel against the establishment figures within their
party begging them to see the political writing on the wall.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               18 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     November 15, 2012 Thursday 7:59 PM EST

Rubio appeals to GOP common sense' on immigration

BYLINE: Natalie Jennings

LENGTH: 172 words


Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) covered several topics with the National Journal's
Major Garrett in his session at the Washington Ideas Forumhosted by The Atlantic
in Washington on Thursday.

But his comments on immigration spurred the lengthiest discussion and the most
buzz afterward, as his party is coming to terms with last week's election loss
and the demographic advantages Obama had. Here's his most memorable line (around
the 14:30 mark above):

"It's really hard to get people to listen to you on economic growth, on tax
rates, on health care, if they think you want to deport their grandmother.
There's common sense here in terms of how you portray it.Policy matters too, but
rhetoric is important.

Rubio and Garrett also talked about Susan Rice (Rubio had "no pre-judgment" on
her involvement in Libya), the fiscal cliff and possibility of sequestration
("bipartisan dumb") and his political future (a planned trip to Iowa has
"nothing to do with 2016).

Aaron Blake has a good chaser for Rubio's immigration remarks over on The Fix.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               19 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                      November 30, 2012 Friday 3:56 PM EST

Ted Cruz: '47 percent' cost us Hispanics

BYLINE: Rachel Weiner

LENGTH: 202 words


In a speech to conservatives in Washington on Thursday night, Senator-elect Ted
Cruz (R-Tex.) gave an election postmortem that blamed a messaging failure for
GOP losses in 2012.

"Do you want to know why Barack Obama won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote?" he
asked the audience at the American Principles Project's "Red, White & Blue"
gala, the Daily Caller reports. "The tone of immigration contributed, but I
think far more important was '47 percent.' " "I think Mitt Romney's a good man,
a man of character, a man who ran a hard, disciplined campaign," he said. "But
Republicans nationally, the story we conveyed, was 47 percent are stuck in a
static world. We don't have to worry about them is what that clip famously
said."

The Cuban American Republican said the party should continue to oppose illegal
immigration and push for border security, while championing legal immigration.
The conservative message, he argued, should be "opportunity conservatism" - the
idea that "anybody with nothing can achieve anything."

Romney lagged far behind in polls of Latino voters long before the "47 percent"
comments were leaked.

The Atlantic has more on the event, which featured "overcooked steak drenched in
melted brie."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               20 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                      December 4, 2012 Tuesday 5:12 PM EST

Romney staffer: We didn't have to shift right on immigration;
Romney campaign manager Matt Rhoades acknowledged that, at a minimum, the move
on immigration was unnecessary and, in fact, was less effective against Perry
than an attack that Romney made from the left.

BYLINE: Karen Tumulty

LENGTH: 189 words


Campaign staffers from both President Obama and Mitt Romney's campaigns
described the details of their operations at a forum last week sponsored by the
Institute of Politics at Harvard University.

One issue was whether Romney's hard-line position on illegal immigration during
the primary season ultimately hurt him with Hispanic voters, who were a crucial
voting bloc in the November election. The stance was an effort by Romney to
position himself to the right of Texas Gov. Rick Perry, whom Romney criticized
for allowing the children of illegal immigrants to pay in-state tuition rates at
Texas colleges.

Romney campaign manager Matt Rhoades acknowledged that, at a minimum, the move
on immigration was unnecessary - and, in fact, was less effective against Perry
than an attack that Romney made from the left.

"In retrospect, I believe that we could have probably just beaten Governor Perry
with the Social Security hit," Rhoades said, referring to Perry's description of
Social Security as a "Ponzi scheme."

The remarks were subject to an embargo that was lifted after audio recordings
were released Monday. Read the whole story here.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               21 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                    The Fix

                    December 12, 2012 Wednesday 11:31 PM EST

Sen. Menendez's office employed undocumented sex offender as intern, report
says;
The AP reported that the Democratic senator from New Jersey employed as an
unpaid intern an illegal immigrant who was also a registered sex offender.

BYLINE: Sean Sullivan

LENGTH: 655 words


Make sure to sign up to receive "Afternoon Fix" every day in your e-mail inbox
by 5(ish) p.m.!

EARLIER ON THE FIX:

The political year on Twitter, by the numbers

Why Congress is so partisan - in 2 charts

Who is the next Jim DeMint?

Rick Snyder: The Scott Walker of 2014

5 ways the GOP can do better with Latinos

'The Daily Show' rap about the Michigan right-to-work battle (VIDEO)

John Boehner getting bad reviews on 'fiscal cliff' talks

WHAT YOU MIGHT HAVE MISSED:

* The wife of former Democratic congressman Jesse Jackson Jr. of Illinois says
she does not plan to run for his seat. "No. I am not a candidate for Congress,"
Alderman Sandi Jackson said. "I intend to remain an alderman." Jesse Jackson Jr.
resigned from the House in November amid a federal probe and health issues.

* Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said in an interview set to air Wednesday
night that she doesn't think she will make another bid for the White House. "I
really don't believe that that's something I will do again," said Clinton, who
remains widely popular in public opinion polls.

* The AP reported that Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) employed a registered sex
offender who was in the country illegally as an unpaid intern in his office, and
that the Department of Homeland Security told federal agents not to arrest the
teenager until after Election Day. A DHS spokesman denies that the arrest was
delayed until after the election. "The report is categorically false," DHS
spokesman Peter Boogaard said. For his part, Menendez said in a Wednesday TV
interview that he "didn't know anything about this young man's status until
right before I came on this program."

* Sen. Scott Brown (R-Mass.) hinted at a possible future run at the Senate in
his farewell speech on Wednesday. "Victory and defeat is temporary," Brown said
with a smile. "Depending on what happens and where we go, all of us, we may
obviously meet again." If Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.) leaves the Senate for
Obama's cabinet next year, Brown would likely be the early frontrunner for the
GOP nomination in a special election.

* New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) remains widely popular in New York, according
to a new Quinnipiac University survey. Fully 74 percent of New York voters
approve of the job Cuomo is doing. Even among Republicans, Cuomo's approval
rating is 68 percent. Meanwhile, New York voters are optimistic about the new
power sharing agreement in the state Senate, with 53 percent saying it will be
effective and 30 percent calling it a power grab.

WHAT YOU SHOULDN'T MISS:

* 2012 has been a bad year for Patrick Moran, the son of Rep. Jim Moran (D-Va.).
He pleaded guilty on Wednesday to assaulting his girlfriend earlier this month.
In late-October, he resigned from his father's campaign after undercover video
showing him discussing how to commit voter fraud was released.

* New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R) said it's "ridiculous" to think that he is
too heavy to be president.

* Sen.-elect Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has been assigned a seat on the Senate
Banking Committee. Warren has been an outspoken critic of Wall Street.

* Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.) said that if House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio)
"wants to come back to my district, he's not going to be met with very much
welcome." Amash was one of several GOP congressman who had crossed GOP leaders
and were recently stripped of plum committee assignments.

* In his farewell speech on the Senate floor, Sen. Joe Lieberman (I-Conn.) said:
"When I started here in the Senate, the blackberry was a fruit, and tweeting was
something only birds did."

THE FIX MIX:

It doesn't get him out of homework.

With Aaron Blake

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                               22 of 22 DOCUMENTS



                             Washington Post Blogs
                                 Election 2012

                     September 25, 2012 Tuesday 7:15 PM EST

Obama devotes CGI speech to human trafficking;
Obama gave an impassioned speech against human trafficking, noting that some
girls sold off by poor families are no older than his two daughters.

BYLINE: Scott Wilson

LENGTH: 216 words


A few hours after Mitt Romney appeared at the global charitable gathering hosted
by former President Bill Clinton to explain how the United States can better
promote prosperity and human rights abroad, it was President Obama's turn to do
the same. Obama gave an impassioned speech against human trafficking, noting
that some girls sold off by poor families are no older than his two daughters.

"I've made it clear that the United States will be a leader in this global
movement" against trafficking, Obama said, adding that his administration is
helping other countries meet international goals designed to reduce trafficking
and to call out those not trying hard enough to do so. "Nations must speak with
one voice - that our people and our children are not for sale," Obama said.

He noted that there is too much human trafficking in the United States, mostly
within immigrant communities more vulnerable at times because of their
undocumented status and poverty. He said he has stepped up efforts within the
country to confront the crime.

"We cannot ask other nations to do what we are not doing ourselves," he said,
adding that he intends a number of steps to "go after traffickers," including
better work with outside investigators, coordination with transportation
companies, and other measures"

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


Copyright 2012 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a Washington
                                  Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved
