
                               1 of 11 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2012 Friday
                                    National

Back When Americans Were the 'Illegals'

BYLINE: By JAY ROOT.

jroot@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 609 words


The illegal immigrants had crossed the river in defiance of the law, then
escaped capture by sneaking past armed patrols in the dark. They did not have
the required paperwork and were ordered to leave, but the authorities suspected
the immigrants would probably defy them.

It is a scenario that happens every day on the Texas-Mexico border. But in this
particular incident, the immigrants were white, English-speaking Americans who
were looking for a better life in Texas. And the authorities who were trying to
keep them out were Mexican.

The episode offers some modern lessons, according to one Texas official.

In 1830, Mexico passed a law banning almost all immigration from the United
States and provided for military garrisons along its border to enforce it.

Col. José de las Piedras, writing a letter (in Spanish) to Stephen F. Austin,
the ''father of Texas,'' reported that he had encountered the immigrants east of
the Trinity River heading west in what was then Mexico toward Austin's colony,
west of modern-day Houston. He checked them for passports, but they had none, so
he ordered them to leave Mexico pursuant to the new immigration law. They talked
the colonel into letting them tend to some business in the colony, though, by
promising to return and then exit the country within 20 days.

''But in contempt of the laws of the country and of its authorities and a total
disregard to my orders which they promised to obey, availing themselves of the
obscurity of the night and unfrequented roads, they took off'' -- with their
families -- ''and are now on their way to your town, as I am informed by Colonel
Bean, who met them on that side of the Trinity'' River, Colonel Piedras wrote in
the letter, which now resides at the Texas General Land Office.

''As they have come into this country contrary to law and have disrespected the
authorities,'' he continued, ''I think they ought not to be admitted.''

It is hard to be certain what happened to those immigrants, though some of their
names match those of families who got land in an independent Texas. What is
known is that thousands of immigrants defied Mexican laws in coming to what is
now Texas before the Anglo settlers declared independence from Mexico and formed
their own nation, which later became the 28th state.

Their stories can be found among thousands of yellowing documents at the land
office, where Commissioner Jerry Patterson -- a Republican who has already
announced his intention to run for lieutenant governor in 2014 -- gains
inspiration for his moderate views on immigration reform.

Long before President Obama's re-election, after which prominent Republicans
said their party needed to show Hispanics a gentler position on immigration
reform, Mr. Patterson has used Texas history to promote a softer and more
nuanced view of how to deal with people who have come here without work papers.

At Republican clubs around the state, he tells them that the first immigrants
were white Americans -- and that many of them were here illegally.

''We have a long tradition of immigration and illegal immigration, and the first
illegals were folks who look a lot more like me than they did some native
Tejano,'' Mr. Patterson said. The commissioner, who favors an international
guest-worker program, said all the issues that divide many Texans and Mexicans
today -- like amnesty, cultural and linguistic assimilation, and deportation --
divided them back then. But their roles are now reversed.

''The simplistic bumper-sticker immigration policy is not in the best interest
of the United States, and we have a history that proves up that absolutes don't
necessarily work,'' Mr. Patterson said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/14/us/when-americans-were-illegal-immigrants-in-m
exico.html

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Records document early immigrants, including Stephen F. Austin.
Far left, Jerry Patterson, land commissioner. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALLIE RICHMOND
FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 11 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 14, 2012 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Washington: Border Guards Will Cease Acting as Interpreters

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | NORTHWEST; Pg.
24

LENGTH: 175 words


United States Border Patrol agents will no longer serve as interpreters when
local law enforcement agencies request language help, according to a new decree
issued by the Department of Homeland Security. The new guidance said agents
should refer such requests to private services often used by government
agencies. Seeking language help is a common practice among local law enforcement
agencies in Washington State. If a person is pulled over and can speak only
Spanish, the Border Patrol is often called. But immigration advocates complain
that Border Patrol agents ask people questions about immigration and in some
cases arrest immigrants suspected of being in the country illegally. ''The
concept of language access should be without people being questioned about their
immigration status,'' said Jorge L. Barón, executive director of the Northwest
Immigrant Rights Project, a legal aid organization based in Seattle. Immigrants
have grown apprehensive about calling local law enforcement agencies if they
know the Border Patrol will respond, he said.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/14/us/washington-border-guards-will-cease-acting-
as-interpreters.html

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 11 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 23, 2012 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Undocumented Diner

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 148 words


Chuck Klosterman claims that knowingly patronizing a business that employs
illegal immigrants is not unethical. Although Klosterman admits illegal
immigrants may take jobs from American workers, he asks, ''Who is to say
citizenship is a moral justification for employment?'' He seems not to realize
that businesses exploiting illegal immigrants can outcompete law-abiding
businesses. The weight of all that should be sufficient to make knowingly
patronizing such businesses unethical.

DAVID C. HOLZMAN,Lexington, Mass.

If you examined the ethics (and morals) of every business you patronized, I
think you'd find almost all of them do something or believe in something that
you object to. Why does Chick-fil-A's stance on gay marriage matter in terms of
whether we should eat their chicken? I'm not sure, but to some it most certainly
does matter.

BOBBY CALISE,New York, posted on nytimes.com

URL:

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 11 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 26, 2012 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration and Policing

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 524 words


The Obama administration on Friday announced a policy change that -- if it works
-- should lead to smarter enforcement of the immigration laws, with greater
effort spent on deporting dangerous felons and less on minor offenders who pose
no threat.

The new policy places stricter conditions on when Immigration and Customs
Enforcement sends requests, known as detainers, to local law-enforcement
agencies asking them to hold suspected immigration violators in jail until the
government can pick them up. Detainers will be issued for serious offenders --
those who have been convicted or charged with a felony, who have three or more
misdemeanor convictions, or have one conviction or charge for misdemeanor crimes
like sexual abuse, drunken driving, weapons possession or drug trafficking.
Those who illegally re-entered the country after having been deported or posing
a national-security threat would also be detained. But there would be no
detainers for those with no convictions or records of only petty offenses like
traffic violations.

John Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE,
said this was a case of ''setting priorities'' to ''maximize public safety.''

But wait, you ask, shouldn't ICE have been doing this all along? Didn't Mr.
Morton say in a memo two years ago that ICE would use its ''prosecutorial
discretion'' to focus on the most dangerous illegal immigrants? He did. But for
nearly as long as President Obama has been in office, ICE has been vastly
expanding its deportation efforts, enlisting state and local agencies to expel
people at a record pace of 400,000 a year -- tens of thousands of them
noncriminals or minor offenders. By outsourcing ''discretion'' to local cops
through a fingerprinting program called Secure Communities, it has greatly
increased the number of small fry caught in an ever-wider national dragnet.

Some cities and states have resisted cooperating with ICE detainers for the very
reasons of proportionality and public safety that Mr. Morton cited on Friday.
California's attorney general, Kamala Harris, told her state's law enforcement
agencies this month that ICE had no authority to force them to jail minor
offenders who pose no threat.

Secure Communities and indiscriminate detainers have caused no end of
frustration for many police officials, who rely on trust and cooperation in
immigrant communities to do their jobs. They know that crime victims and
witnesses will not cooperate if every encounter with the law carries the danger
of deportation. They have shied away from a federal role that is not theirs to
take.

ICE's announcement seems to make those efforts unnecessary. It puts the Obama
administration on the same page as states and cities that have tried to draw a
brighter line between their jobs and the federal government's. A stricter
detainer policy is better for police and sheriffs, who can focus more on public
safety. It makes people less vulnerable to pretextual arrests by cops who troll
for immigrants with broken taillights. And it helps restore some sanity and
proportion to an immigration system that has long been in danger of losing both.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/26/opinion/a-brighter-line-on-immigration-and-pol
icing.html

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 11 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Lens)

                           December 18, 2012 Tuesday

The Opportunity, or Not, to Be American

BYLINE: JAMES ESTRIN

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 786 words



HIGHLIGHT: The photographer Jon Lowenstein spent 12 years pursuing the stories
of Mexican and Central American migrants traveling to and from the United States
- as well as those stuck in limbo.


When Jon Lowenstein first came to Chicago 20 years ago, he was torn between
pursuing a career as a photographer and devoting his life to teaching English as
a second language to Spanish speakers.

While studying for his master's in photography at Columbia College, he taught
English to a group mostly of Mexican migrants. After receiving his degree, Mr.
Lowenstein continued to teach English as a second language and mentor young
people in community programs. From 2001 to 2005 he taught photography three days
a week and coached basketball part time at a Chicago elementary school. Mr.
Lowenstein also documented the school and surrounding community and helped
create a community newspaper called Our Streets.

His passion for photography eventually won out, but his interest in immigration
issues and community activism never diminished.

"Ultimately, you want something to happen from your pictures," said Mr.
Lowenstein, 42. "What's great about photography is that it can be amorphous. It
can be different to each person, and you can use it many different ways, both
for good and for bad. You can use it for propaganda that really hurts people or
for profit - or you can use it in positive ways and build bridges between
communities."

Mr. Lowenstein started by photographing Mexican day laborers and their families
in Chicago. This led to "Shadow Lives, USA," a look at Mexican and Central
American migration to and from the United States that was 12 years in the
making. It examines how undocumented people have gotten to the United States
border and how their fortunes unfold afterward. While Mr. Lowenstein is hardly
the only photographer to cover Mexican and Central American migration, few have
done it as comprehensively over such an extended period of time.

His interest in immigration issues, he said, is seeded in his father's
experiences in Nazi Germany before World War II. His father, Edward, who was 4
years old in 1939, was one of a few thousand Jewish children who were allowed to
leave Germany on kindertransport - though his parents were forced to stay.  His
father's brother, Ralph had been on an earlier train. While several relatives
were killed in Nazi camps, the immediate family survived and reunited in the
United States after the war. They were able to become citizens.

Mr. Lowenstein's "Shadow Lives" project pieces together different parts of the
immigration story - what it's like back home, why people leave, the
militarization of the United States-Mexico border, the struggle for immigration
reform in the United States and the effects of political and criminal justice
policy on migrants.

His focus now is Escondido, a small city north of San Diego, whose population is
more than 40 percent Hispanic. Working with the University of San Diego
Trans-Border Institute, he will be using his images to engage faith leaders and
youth groups from various backgrounds in a dialogue around migration.

Last week, the Open Society Documentary Photography Project awarded Mr.
Lowenstein an Audience Engagement Grant to explore how his images can advance
social change.

The grant challenges photographers to go beyond presenting photographs on a
gallery wall or printed page and transform passive viewers into participants in
social action.

Mr. Lowenstein, who is a member of the photo agency Noor, plans to use the grant
to help the community create a newspaper for which residents will interview and
photograph each other. He will also exhibit his photographs and employ a new app
called Junaio, an "augmented reality" browser for a tablet device or iPhone that
links images and qr codes to additional content.

The project strives to bring the different communities in Escondido together to
share their experiences.

It also ties together his longstanding interests in photography and working with
the Mexican community.

Earlier this year, Mr. Lowenstein traveled with his father to the station in
Germany from which the kindertransport departed 70 years ago. The elder Mr.
Lowenstein told of how his  father had held onto the train, refusing to let go
as he watched his other son, Ralph, being taken away.  He was pulled off the
train by the police as it left the station.

The younger Mr. Lowenstein had never heard the tale before. It underscored, for
him, what is compelling about recording immigration stories.

"My own family had the opportunity to be included in America," Mr. Lowenstein
said. "The people I photograph do not."

Follow @JonLowenstein, @JamesEstrin and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also
on Facebook.


     ·    Life on Both Sides of the Border
     ·    Modern Agonies in Ancient Mexican Villages
     ·    A Reckoning at the Frontier
     ·    An Inside View on Documentary Stories
     ·    In Restive Greece, Afghans Greeted by Xenophobia


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 11 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 13, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Latino Leaders Warn Congress on Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 742 words


WASHINGTON - The nation's largest Latino organizations warned Congress on
Wednesday that they will keep a report card during the immigration debate next
year, with plans to mobilize their voters against lawmakers who do not support a
comprehensive immigration bill.

At a news conference here, seven Latino groups and one labor union were showing
their muscle, after the record turnout of Hispanic voters in the November
elections played a pivotal role in President Obama's re-election victory.

Janet Murguía, the president of N.C.L.R., also known as the National Council of
La Raza, said the election had been a "game-changer" that conclusively "made the
political case for a bipartisan solution" on immigration.

"We have worked to build our power and now we intend to use it," Ms. Murguía
said. "The bottom line," she said, "is that Latino voters went to the polls with
the economy on their minds but with immigration reform in their hearts."

The leaders made it clear they expect quick action in 2013. They said the
president and Congress should take up an immigration bill soon after Mr. Obama's
inauguration in January, with an eye toward completing passage of legislation by
August.

The leaders said they would continue a joint campaign they led this year to
naturalize Latino immigrants and to register and mobilize Latino voters. They
said they would send results from the report card to those voters, to galvanize
them during the debate and to guide their choices in the midterm elections in
2014.

"Make no mistake, we will be watching," said Eliseo Medina, international
secretary-treasurer of the Service Employees International Union, which led one
of the most extensive Latino voter drives. The report card will show "who stood
with us and who stood against us" on immigration reform, Mr. Medina said.

Mr. Obama has said he intends to move quickly on immigration next year, after
Congress comes to some resolution on the year-end fiscal crisis and other budget
issues. A host of Republicans have come forward since the election to say their
party should take a new course on immigration, after Mitt Romney drew only 27
percent of the Latino vote.

Republican leaders who have studied voting statistics are concerned that their
party's chances to regain the White House will dwindle if they cannot attract
more Latinos. According to the Pew Hispanic Center, Latinos will account for as
much as 40 percent of the growth in the numbers of eligible voters in the
country between now and 2030. By that year, the center predicts, 40 million
Hispanics will be eligible to vote, nearly double the 23 million eligible today.

The leaders said Latinos were spurred to the polls by the hard-line positions
that Mr. Romney and other Republicans took on immigration.

"We realized that people were attacking us personally," said Maria Teresa Kumar,
president of Voto Latino, a voter mobilization group. The Latino groups will
focus on lawmakers in states and districts where their voters can make a
difference. For those who do not support reform, Ms. Kumar said, "in 2014 it may
not look pretty for them."

Latino leaders argued that Washington has done enough to bolster enforcement
against illegal immigration.

"We can no longer see enforcement-only policies moving through Congress," said
Chris Espinosa, national advocacy director for the Hispanic Federation. "We have
secured our borders, now it's time to get to other elements of immigration
reform."

The leaders said they seek a single comprehensive bill, rather than several
bills addressing legalization for groups of illegal immigrants, like young
people or farmworkers. They said they would insist on a path to citizenship for
all 11 million illegal immigrants in the country, rather than a temporary legal
status that does not offer an eventual chance to naturalize.

The news conference also included leaders from the League of United Latin
American Citizens and the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed
Officials Educational Fund.

Mr. Medina, expressing some of the optimistic bravado Latinos are feeling,
promised a "massive" grass roots campaign next year. "It's going to be a doozy,"
he said.

"Failure is not an option," Mr. Medina said. "Comprehensive immigration reform
is going to happen. Whether it will be over the political bodies of some of the
current members of Congress," he said, "only they can decide."

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL:
http://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/12/12/latino-groups-warn-congress-to-fix
-immigration-or-else/

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 11 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 13, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Bills Before City Council Would Limit Deportations

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 445 words


Two bills that members of the New York City Council plan to propose on Thursday
would place further limits on the city's cooperation with federal authorities
seeking to detain and deport immigrants.

The bills come in response to Secure Communities, a federal
immigration-enforcement plan that has been criticized by immigrants' advocates,
civil liberties lawyers and elected officials in the state and across the
country. If they pass, the laws will reaffirm the city's reputation as one of
the most immigrant-friendly municipalities in the nation, though the bill also
risks provoking a confrontation with the Obama administration.

''What we don't want is New York City's agencies having to participate in
deporting people who present no risk and in fact may be adding a great deal to
the City of New York,'' Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker and lead
sponsor on one of the bills, said in an interview Wednesday.

Under Secure Communities, the fingerprints of everyone booked into a local or
county jail are sent to the Department of Homeland Security and compared with
prints in its files. If officials find that a suspect is in the country
illegally, or is a noncitizen with a criminal record, they may issue ''a
detainer'' -- a request that the police hold the person for pickup by federal
officials.

Obama administration officials say they have focused the program on immigrants
who have committed serious crimes or repeatedly violated immigration laws. But
opponents of the program fear that it will become an excessively broad dragnet
that fractures families and erodes trust between law-enforcement agencies and
immigrants.

The program was expanded to New York last May despite the opposition of Gov.
Andrew M. Cuomo and immigrant groups.

The new bills would significantly expand the protections against detainers that
were signed into law by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg last year. Under the proposed
legislation, the city would not honor a detainer unless certain conditions were
met, including that the immigrant had a prior felony conviction or was facing a
felony charge, was included in a federal gang database or on a terrorist watch
list, or had outstanding criminal warrants or prior orders of deportation.

In addition, the proposed laws would honor detainers for immigrants convicted of
a misdemeanor as long as the conviction occurred within the past decade and was
not for unlicensed driving, prostitution or loitering for the purposes of
prostitution.

But the laws would block detainers for immigrants facing most misdemeanor
charges, with the exception of certain charges relating to weapons, sex crimes,
drunken driving, criminal contempt and assault.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/13/nyregion/new-york-city-council-to-consider-2-b
ills-limiting-deportations.html

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 11 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 27, 2012 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Audits On Businesses Rise

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | WASHINGTON; Pg.
17

LENGTH: 151 words


United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement audited more companies for
illegal immigrants on their payrolls in the 2012 fiscal year than in previous
years. Audits of employer I-9 forms increased to more than 3,000 in 2012 from
250 in the 2007 fiscal year. From fiscal 2009 to 2012, the total amount of fines
grew to nearly $13 million from $1 million, ICE data showed. Employers are
required to have workers fill out an I-9 form that declares them authorized to
work in the country. An employer needs only to verify that identifying documents
look real. The audits rely on ICE officers scouring payroll records to find
names that do not match Social Security numbers and other identification
databases. In the 2011 fiscal year, the most recent year reviewed by The
Associated Press, the median fine was $11,000. The state with the most
workplaces fined was Texas with 63, followed by New Jersey with 37.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/27/us/immigration-audits-on-businesses-rise.html

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 11 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                            December 14, 2012 Friday

Government Agency Will Give RIM Another Chance

BYLINE: BRIAN X. CHEN

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 277 words



HIGHLIGHT: Perhaps there's hope for Research In Motion after all. A federal
agency that announced plans to dump the BlackBerry for the iPhone says it's
willing to give RIM's coming BlackBerry 10 smartphones a shot.


Perhaps there's hope for the BlackBerrys after all. A United States government
agency that had announced plans to dump the BlackBerry for the iPhone says it's
willing to give Research in Motion's coming BlackBerry 10 smartphones a shot.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which is part of the Department of Homeland
Security, says it will start a pilot program early next year to test the new
BlackBerry phones.

In October, the agency said it was planning to buy iPhones for its 17,600
employees and stop issuing BlackBerry devices because they could "no longer meet
the needs of the agency." But it told Reuters that it was developing mobile apps
for law enforcement and looking into whether the BlackBerry 10 could come in
handy in the future.

RIM introduced the new BlackBerry 10 software in May. The company has delayed
the release of new BlackBerry phones with the software several times, but it
appears that they will finally arrive early next year.

Scott Totzke, RIM's senior vice president of BlackBerry security, said in a
statement that the company designed the BlackBerry 10 to provide businesses with
secure services and to bolster productivity.

"ICE has been a valued BlackBerry customer for years, and our commitment to
government agencies has influenced the development of the BlackBerry 10
platform," he said. He said the company would share more details about the
BlackBerry 10 in an event announcing the phones on Jan. 30.


     ·    Products That Challenge RIM on Smartphone Security
     ·    Daily Report: Businesses Look for a BlackBerry Substitute
     ·    Consumers Less Happy With BlackBerrys
     ·    Scientific Agency to Drop BlackBerry for iPhone
     ·    Halliburton Drops BlackBerry for iPhone


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               10 of 11 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (IHT Rendezvous)

                            December 14, 2012 Friday

Can You Be English if You Don't Speak English?

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 735 words



HIGHLIGHT: The leader of Britain's opposition Labour Party wants to ensure new
immigrants learn English. His remarks are seen as a repositioning of policy on
the issue of immigration. But do language skills matter that much in a
multicultural society?


LONDON - Should immigrants be obliged to learn the language of their adopted
country?

It is a perennial question in Europe, the United States and elsewhere and was
raised again on Friday by Ed Miliband, the leader of Britain's opposition Labour
Party.

Mr. Miliband, the son of Polish-born Jewish refugees from the Holocaust, said
all newcomers to Britain should be expected to learn English and those in
taxpayer-funded employment should be required to do so.

Immigration is a political minefield in Britain as it is in other European
countries where a growing number of unemployed citizens is chasing a diminishing
number of jobs.

Census data published this week showed that 13 percent of the population of
England and Wales was born outside Britain, while only 45 percent of Londoners
now describe themselves as "white British." More than two million immigrants
arrived in Britain in the past decade.

For many, Mr. Miliband included, the emergence of a multiethnic Britain is
something to be celebrated. "I am the son of immigrants. I love Britain," he
said in a closely watched speech. "But I am not going to shy away from the
difficult issues."

His "One Nation" speech, which put the emphasis on the need for integration, was
nevertheless seen as a nod in the direction of those who claim that Labour's
policies when in power led to uncontrolled immigration and ethnic segregation in
parts of Britain.

David Aaronovitch, a broadcaster and columnist for The Times of London, messaged
the Labour leader on Twitter to tell him that his English language stipulation
was "a bit of a stunt," and to suggest his speech was an attempt to neutralize
the immigration issue for Labour.

@andybolton @ed_miliband I think he's trying to 'neutralise' the issue for
Labour.

- David Aaronovitch (@DAaronovitch) December 14, 2012

Others suggested ahead of the speech that Labour was attempting to "reposition"
itself on immigration to prevent losing some of its its traditional white,
working-class supporters to other parties.

Among practical measures, Mr. Miliband would reduce funding for translation
services for immigrants in order to pay for their language classes.

Mr. Miliband's speech came after Theresa May, the Conservative minister in
charge of internal affairs, this week referred to the strains brought on by a
decade of "uncontrolled mass immigration."

"You only have to look at London, where almost half of all primary school
children speak English as a second language, to see the challenges we now face
as a country to build an integrated, cohesive society," she told a center-right
research institute. "How can people build relationships with their neighbors if
they can't even speak the same language?"

Jonathan Portes in The Guardian suggested the language issue was something of a
myth.

"It is true that almost half of all primary school children in London speak
English as a second language," he wrote. "But this doesn't mean that they, or
their parents, can't speak English with their friends and neighbors."

He added, "Census data shows that only one in eight households in London (and
one in 25 in the country) don't include someone for whom English is a 'main'
language; and even some of those will have people who can communicate perfectly
well in English."

Anecdotal evidence is that young immigrants, or those born in Britain to
immigrant parents, usually take responsibility for helping older relatives
negotiate the challenges of living in an English-speaking society.

The latest data suggest around one million new Londoners do not speak English.
It might make practical sense for them to start learning it. But does it matter
if they don't?

A visiting friend last week recalled the experience of his grandmother, a
multilingual Holocaust survivor who eventually made her home in multicultural
New York.

Her six languages did not include English and she decided she did not need to
learn it. Yiddish and Spanish turned out to be more than adequate to meet her
daily needs.

What do you think? Can newcomers truly be British or American if they don't
speak English, or French if they don't speak French? Or are other attributes
more essential to integrate in today's multiethnic societies? Let us know your
views.


     ·    Choosing Sides on Regulating the Press
     ·    Across Angry Europe, Voting for 'The Other Lot'
     ·    Study Suggests the Right Is Wrong
     ·    Baby News Keeps Royals in the Headlines
     ·    Canadian Welcomed as 'Team England' Boss


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               11 of 11 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Lens)

                            December 31, 2012 Monday

Israel's Flourishing Russian Culture

BYLINE: JAMES ESTRIN and DAVID FURST

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 436 words



HIGHLIGHT: Oded Balilty thought he knew Israel, the country he grew up in,
pretty well. But when he photographed Israel's Russian-speaking immigrant
community, he learned he had a lot to learn.


It's fair to say that Oded Balilty knows Israel. He grew up in Jerusalem and has
been covering the country as a photographer for The Associated Press since 2002.

But this year, as he photographed the Russian community there, he learned - to
his surprise - that he still had a lot to learn. At least about the Russians
that make up more than 15 percent of the population of Israel.

In a country full of Jewish immigrants, children of immigrants, and
grandchildren of immigrants, Israeli Russians have retained a sense of their
culture, language and identity. Yet they remain slightly apart.

Mr. Balilty set out to explore the community precisely because he, and his
friends, knew so little about them. He photographed boxing matches, chess games
and Russian nightclubs and often found that not a word of Hebrew was spoken all
night.

"Some days, I felt like I was in Eastern Europe, but five minutes from my
house," Mr. Balilty said.

Israel has the third-largest Russian-speaking population outside of Russia,
after the United States and Germany. As the Soviet Union crumbled in the late
1980s into the 1990s, a flood of Russians with Jewish ties, sometimes tenuous,
departed for Israel. They were leaving a land that historically had been less
than welcoming to Jews for a land where they would be in the majority.

In Israel, they have become successful in academia, technology, sports and
politics. Yisrael Beiteinu, a nationalist political party with a secular,
Russian-speaking base, has become a powerful force in Israeli politics.

Mr. Balilty's journey started a year ago, at a large Russian New Year's Eve
celebration. In Israel, most people celebrate the Jewish lunar new year, Rosh
Hashana. Mr. Balilty said that he can appreciate continuing one's culture, as
his parents had emigrated from Morocco to Israel.

"The Russians are totally Israeli. They work like everyone else, often in
high-tech jobs, but at night they can live in a different world," Mr. Balilty,
33, said. "They came here with a beautiful culture, but the culture didn't open
to the Israeli people. I hope someday that Israel will be able to fully
experience it."

Mr. Balilty, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 2007 for his memorable photograph of a
West Bank settler holding off a phalanx of Israeli security forces, was featured
on Lens earlier this year for his images of a Hasidic wedding.

Follow @JamesEstrin and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also on Facebook.


     ·    Pictures of the Day: Israel and Elsewhere
     ·    So Close, Yet So Far
     ·    Pictures of the Day: Florida and Elsewhere
     ·    Pictures of the Day: Nigeria and Elsewhere
     ·    Pictures of the Day: Russia and Elsewhere


LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved
